[Music]
thank you
hello Khan nine enthusiasts
I'm taking a break from my usual Math
and Science content in this video to
show you my submission to AG mashwa's
second annual cursed conlang circus
this is impure titorea
the language of all time
so I didn't have any clever ideas for
rocks or a pastoriori languages in this
contest but I think I did come up with
something interesting
is the language of Time Travelers
optimized for the needs of Time
Travelers sort of
and most definitely cursed for everyone
else
first the context
when I say um
is the language of Time Travelers I
specifically mean it is spoken in the
many worlds model of time travel
in which going back and changing the
past splits off a new timeline and you
can always go back to your home timeline
like in this diagram
think Avengers end game or just plain
Multiverse stories rather than
Terminator or Interstellar
that is you can go back to your home
timeline if you have a working Quantum
homing device
you do have a working Quantum homing
device don't you
you don't want to have to pull a tooth
or something to isolate your Quantum
signature to make a new one
anyway that's the environment that
impurities developed in
and impurities needs to be a very
complex language because time travel can
get very very
complicated
as is tradition we'll start with the
phonology
impurities consonants are
that's it just those six but these six
are pretty much the most universal
sounds in human language you'll find all
of them in almost every major language
on Earth and certainly all of those in
the top 20.
so that part's easy
stories vowels are ah eh e o u
it's just the standard five vowel system
but there's a catch
these vowels never appear in isolation
there are no monophthongs in the
language
instead the pure vowels are combined
into 16 diphthongs
32 triphthongs
and eight tetraphongs for a total of 56
vowels
why is it like this even the native
speakers don't know
although one theory is that it makes it
harder to accidentally speak the name of
one of the outer gods
for phonotactics consonant clusters are
permitted if they have the same place of
articulation and stops can occur only at
the end of a cluster
so that allows these seven
syllables are composed of one consonant
and one vowel if you treat clusters as
single letters
or it can be just a vowel at the start
of a word
also there is no phonemic length tone or
stress because who needs them when you
have 56 vowels
the morphology of impurities is fusional
because fusional languages are cool
and that might not sound very cursed
until you look at the conjugation table
this is Latin and impurities is crazier
than this
another important feature of the
morphology is that derivation of words
is often done by vowel mutation
and really any vowel mutation can work
but there are several major patterns
that will appear fairly often and if you
look closely you'll even see them in
this slideshow especially in the verb
forms
in Purity Australia does have its own
writing system
said writing system treats both
consonant clusters and powder thongs as
single letters
which by complete coincidence gives us
an alphabet of 69 letters
however for most of this video I will
use the romanization shown here for the
convenience of the viewer
now it's on to the grammar and as you
might guess it's this part that's shaped
more by it being a language for Time
Travelers
first of all time travelers soon learn
that their actions have huge effects on
future timelines effects that need to be
kept track of
this means they care a lot about what is
done and what results from it and not as
much about who does it
thus in pure Teo stueya's default word
order is VOS
for similar reasons it has ergative
absolute of alignment except in present
tenses where careful tracking of cause
and effect is not quite as important
they are the pattern is dominant of
accusative
modifiers precede heads except in
negation where they come before and
after
it uses a mix of post positions and a
few circum positions
and notably there are very few words for
absolutes in the language because in the
Multiverse there are no absolutes
everything that can happen and a lot of
things that can't do happen in some
timeline somewhere
that's not really grammar but it's
important to know for later
to understand how the grammar Works in
detail
you have to understand how impurities
interprets timelines
the temporal dexas of the language
when time travel gets involved dexas
becomes exponentially more complicated
because time is no longer linear
you don't have to deal with just past
and future
you have to deal with time travelers
from different times possibly
interacting at different points in their
respective timelines
think Doctor Who where the doctor and
River Song were always synchronizing
their Diaries
to sort through all this imputio storya
has to handle dexas in not one not two
but four time dimensions
the First Dimension is yoa
or the objective linear time we're
familiar with
1945 comes after 1865 and that's always
true anytime anywhere
the second is
the subject of time of the time traveler
if you go back in time
1865 comes later in your personal
timeline than the 21st century
in fact Time Travelers are encouraged to
keep Diaries tracking both subjective
and objective time so they don't get
lost
the third dimension is insea usually
translated Divergence
this is a measure of how far part whole
timelines are from each other based on
how long ago they branched off
for example a timeline diverging in 1865
is farther away in nseia than one
diverging in 1945 regardless of the
details of each timeline
the fourth dimension is the most unusual
it is called reyte and it doesn't have
an exact translation but it's sometimes
translated as neg entropy
oyte is roughly defined as distance from
normality
but its normality defined in a very
particular way
not the specific path of history in our
timeline but a statistical normal where
things don't get too weird or unlikely
in a cosmic sense
for example a timeline where you go to
1865 but don't make any deliberate
changes and just see what happens
is close in wait a
close to the statistical normal
a timeline where you go to 1945 and
meticulously manipulate events to change
the outcome of the war
well you'd be caught and disciplined by
the Ethics Committee long before you
finished
but if you did
that would be far in oyte
an unlikely event that requires a lot of
intervention to happen
that's how time travel affects dexas
and that will be reflected in some of
the grammar
but we're not done yet because time
travel also affects grammatical number
the thing with multiple timelines is
that you can have multiple copies of the
same person in different timelines
for example suppose you're studying
Abraham Lincoln
in our timeline he was shot by booth
but in another he wasn't
in one timeline he gets impeached much
like Andrew Johnson was
in another he never becomes president at
all
farther away in oyte he might get hit by
a train or he might take up vampire
hunting because everything happens
somewhere
by the end of the project you may be
dealing with many genetically identical
Abraham Lincolns with different life
paths and you're going to need a way to
handle that linguistically
this also does some weird stuff to
kinship terms that's not relevant to
this discussion but it's kind of
important if you want to avoid a low-key
Sylvie situation
anyway this multiplicity across
timelines is addressed essentially by
having grammatical number work in two
dimensions
you can have singular and plural within
a timeline
and you can have singular and plural
across timelines including
distinguishing this timeline from a
different one for a total of five
grammatical numbers
all nouns and pronouns including proper
nouns inflect for these grammatical
numbers
also there are five noun classes
these classes are based around
randomness
as in some sense they tell you how much
random variation you can expect them to
accumulate in a given timeline
nouns in impureitya do not inflect for
class
but they do inflect for number and case
there are four noun cases
ergative absolutive dative and genitive
and this is the declension chart
most down forms use suffixes but you can
see there are two prefixes a circumfix
and a null in the absolute of case
because we can't make it too easy
even so the nouns may not seem too crazy
but it's the verbs where things really
get nuts
with time travel verb tenses as we know
them stop making sense
when the past can become the future and
vice versa
making them work requires us to address
multiple dimensions of temporal dexas
the result is that verbs show Pali
personal agreement and poly-temporal
agreement
they agree with both the subjects and
the object's time streams
this is the standard conjugation pattern
here although there are others I'll show
you in a minute
there's a prefix that agrees with the
person and tense of the object
remember this is Vos word order
and there's a suffix that agrees with
the person and tense of the subject
now that applies if the verb is
transitive and the two tenses do not
agree
if they do agree they're both prefixed
if it's intransitive you drop the
objective person marker or even the
whole objective tense marker if you can
and yes the anti-passive and subject
drop constructions are identical
distinguished only by the transitivity
of the verb
if it's reflexive you use a single
suffix
and of course if the subject is in the
seventh person both tense markers are
suffixed because that's only the
sensible thing to do
now you may be asking what the heck is a
seventh person subject
well the answer to that is no one knows
does indeed have seven grammatical
persons
there are the familiar first second and
third person proximate and then there
are four kinds of obviation
there's fourth person spatially obvious
fifth person temporally obvious
and sixth person metaphysically obvious
meaning the subject is in a different
timeline and has no copy in this
timeline that last part is important
if it's only a different timeline then
it's usually fourth person parasingular
sixth person is also used for fictional
characters because in the Multiverse
there are no absolutes and there are no
impossibilities so even fictional
characters exist in some timeline
somewhere
and then there's the seventh person
conceptually obvious
conceptually obvious basically means
that the subject is anti-memetic
anti-memes are ideas or even entities
with self-censoring or self-erasing
properties like another Doctor Who
example the silence
and the thing about impurities is that
I'm sure the seventh person exists for a
good reason but no one remembers ever
needing to use it
it's a little unsettling
so this is the basic table of verb forms
I'll note that the singular here is
really a non-simple plural form
the parapleural doubly plural and all of
the fifth and seventh person forms use
the non-simple plural form
you'll also note that there are five
distinct tenses
present near past remote past near
future and remote future
all of which may be conjugated into
perfective or imperfective aspect
also there's vowel Harmony if present
with past versus non-past
meanwhile mood or modality is marked
entirely by adverbs even for
interrogatives and imperatives
the noun classes come back here
they don't inflect directly on verbs
either but they do determine the usage
of near and remote tenses for both the
subject and object
basically the class of a noun affects
what is considered a long time for that
noun to use remote tenses
and that time can vary from zero for
stochastic nouns to infinite for static
nouns
now this also means that because of the
way tenses interact with subjects and
discourse participants some tense
combinations are invalid
here's the chart for perfective
non-plural intransitive forms just to
give you an example
and you should be aware that this is
only a small piece of the entire
conjugation table
if you put together all of the valid
tense person number and voice
combinations you get a total of nearly 4
000 verb forms
pronouns in impurities Mark person
number class and case which also
requires a substantial table
luckily they only distinguish sentient
from non-sentient classes
and the third and fifth person are
marked by clitics
on the other hand the sixth person
pronouns are split into two series
there's an informal criticized series
that matches the third and fifth persons
and there's a formal literary series
that have their own forms
now unfortunately some of the seventh
person pronouns have been lost
Scholars have reconstructed them as best
they could but we don't know for sure if
they're right
actually we can't prove those forms ever
existed we just know that we don't have
any good records of them when they
should be there
but for the ones we are sure about be
sure to copy them down carefully
if we did lose some we definitely don't
want to lose any more
whatever it is therefore their
antecedents will probably be unhappy if
they're missing
adjectives also show agreement but
unlike the nouns themselves they agree
with the case and class of their nouns
but not their number
this has to do with the fact that the
properties of a specific object can
change over its natural time scale but
its number generally doesn't
here is the table of adjective
declensions
also of note is that impurities
adjectives do not have superlative forms
because again there are no absolutes in
the Multiverse
instead they have comparative and
intensive forms
the comparative and intensive are marked
by infixes that are placed after the
first syllable
and there's some miscellaneous stuff on
this slide here mainly what I needed for
the translation text
adverbs do not show agreement there's
split negation like in French relative
clauses do weird things to word order
and there are no articles
there's a link to a Google doc in the
description with a slightly more
detailed grammar for the language and
the all-important word list
and I included a download link for the
font I created for this video so you can
write in this utterly cursed language
yourself if you want
now to finish off I'll recite the
translation text and I do confess this
was done with a lot of audio editing
astute
[Music]
foreign